# an Ecological Posterior View<br />
This R package contains functions developed for my own work and personal interest. Considering the amount of time, please refer to the subsequent use article for publication. Most (if not all) functions use JAGS, which requires installation first (https://sourceforge.net/projects/mcmc-jags/files/JAGS/4.x/Windows/). The package focuses on visualizing the posterior and is largely tailored to how aquatic ecologists view "things". Any questions, positive feedback, or suggested improvements that benefit the functionality of the R package are welcome.

Currently, there seems to be a "trend" towards being either a dogmatic Bayesian or Frequentist. I completely distance myself from these perspectives, as the flaws of one are the benefits of the other, and vice versa. Such dogmatic stances are, in a larger sense, rather unfortunate and largely due to misinterpretations, nihilism, and dogmatism. It is perfectly reasonable to adopt the frequentist view, but one must use its language and understanding (I attempted to explain it somewhat here: https://snwikaij.shinyapps.io/shiny/). The frequentist cannot make probability statements about hypotheses, parameters, or models ("effects"). Choices of words such as rejecting, accepting, by chance, or the probability of θ falling within x% of the credibility bounds are Bayesian and are often referred to as abduction (or retroduction). Even Fisher was quite clear about this, but his words seem somewhat lost (https://github.com/snwikaij/Data/tree/main/Statistical_inference_and_induction).

The difference between Frequentism (and our language and understanding) versus Bayesianism I shortly and incompletely addressed here. Assume we have an infinitely large vase with numbers X={X1,...,XN}. This X is suggested to be a normally distributed Random Variable, in short RV as X~N(X̄, σ). We wish to know the “true” mean (unfortunately named “effect” by the ecologist) X̄=∑(X)/N, where N is infinite (∞). X̄ is fixed and unknown in the Frequentist sense and since X̄ is fixed we cannot add probabilities to it. We only have a finite number of samples (n) called the realizations (x), all denoted in small letters. Each finite n has a sample mean x̄ =∑(x)/n and n. If we accumulated all sample means of each study it would converge to X̄={x̄1, …, x̄N}/N and we would know X̄, the issue that N is infinite. Moreover, we need to a priori create (thus the frequentist creates prior conditions to remain objective, but leaves it out of the model) such that x has to be obtained completely “at random” from X. In stat jargon x should be identically and independently be distributed (iid) as x~N(X̄, σ) here x is a finite set x={x1, …, xn}. If so, given each study a fraction Coverage=(1-α)*100% of the (confidence) intervals of x̄ would cover the “true” X̄ and if we reach its limit (sample till N) we find X̄. 
We already see the issue here; nobody focuses on this coverage towards a pooled estimate to find an empirical coverage c-type, m-type or s-type error (Gelman and Carlin, 2014).  Which would be proper Frequentism. Moreover, our literature (figures etc.) are presumably biased which means x̄ is biased so the coverage of X̄ does not account anymore unless n=∞. More problematic are our beliefs and misinterpretations about x̄ (the “effect”). Hence, if we have a vase with N=100 and our n=90 we actually obtained a lot of information about X̄, but this is Bayesian. If N=∞, we cannot say that n=90 provides us any information on the “true” mean or “effect”, hence what is the answer to …=90/∞. 

If N is∞ the data can only be objectively compared to a fixed point, the null model. Hence,we know for sure that if X̄=0 means there is no relation thus or (H0=0). This does not mean that  when x̄=0 for (n) is equal to X̄=0 (N=∞). Every point estimate and interval P(Data|Model0) or test statistic P(Data|Model0) are only about this data in the frequentist sense. They should be  random realizations of a RV. From a logical perspective there can never be no uttered and linguistically commitment  to a temporary conjecture (or support) of “true” mean (or “effect”) X̄. Such conclusions as we support X̄ or H1 or we reject H0 are logically incompatible with Frequentism and invalidate our argument (does not mean that our results are meaningless) (Perezgonzalez, 2015; the word evidence against H0 is unfortunate in an otherwise good article (Lakens, 2022)). Note that 
The beauty of the Frequentist framework is however the overarching principle of accumulating information and the objectivity of each individual study and an infinite (N) goal. In an ideal Frequentist world, each study would focus on their own interpretation of the data, but objectively publish their results (negative or positive). Misinterpretations, such as P(Data>0|Model0) = <.05 is meaningful or that p=P(Model>0|Model) and strong overfocus on hypotheses are then not  (Greenland, 2019). The scientific community as a social construct would focus on efficiently accumulating information to learn about the data generating process (RV). In such a case we would fall to some cumulative and infinite regress as opposed to coherence between beliefs and rather arbitrary and dogmatic justification. 

In this sense going Bayesian is a way of fitting in the language of the larger scientific community. Hence, by making a subjective sacrifice and informing our priors it is logically coherent to can P(Model|Data, Information) and using Bayesian Model Averaging suggest that we addressed multiple (eight) hypotheses (read the above). Hence, it is internally coherent to suggest P(“effect”|Model, Information). However, I will refuses to commit to any conclusion, while the language might address otherwise technically there is no way to  conclude that X̄. Objectivity is somehow the goal, but since our language and understanding do not cohere to N (Frequentism) but to n (Bayesianism), my hands are tied. 

In pragmatism it is about getting the language and intentions aligned and avoiding meta-physical arguments (Dewey, 2007; John, 1920; Legg and Hookway, 2021; Peirce, 1992; William, 1902). The only way to partially conform is to adjust the methods used to the language others use, and that reflects language with a belief on X̄, H1 and H0, rather than objectivity toward X̄, H1 and H0. Hence, pragmatism brings an epi-moral question with it: “Does what I say reflect what is meant” and “Does what I say try  to avoid meta-physcial conundrum”. In this regard everyone makes mistakes. However, knowing the intent of the Frequentist framework does not allow direct conclusion on X̄, H1 and H0. This would not align to what is meant and revert to meta-physical conundrum. Then at least the text is largely internally coherent.

This readme is too short to address all these topics, and I will not delve further into depth either.
